Description
For the final project, you will need to traverse the Duckietown from start to finish and collect points
along the way. There are four stages of the town, each with different tasks to complete.
During the final project demo, your group will have 3 rounds to attempt the course and collect as many
points as you can (as laid out in the table at the end of this document). The round with the most
collected points will be counted as your final demo mark. A round is composed of 4 stages; for each
stage there are potential points to collect, and the amount varies by stage. To get 100% you need to
collect 100 points out of 125 potential points. Partial points will not be assigned for each subtask (i.e.,
you will either get 5 points for each row in the table or 0 points).
Your round starts when you launch your program and finishes when either:
a) You reach the end of the course (park in the parking lot);
b) 10 minutes elapse;
c) Your program crashes or you manually stop your program.
This means that you are allowed to pick your robot up manually if it drives off of the town or gets stuck
and place it back on the course. You must place your robot back on the course at the position it drove
off of the town or right after the place where it got stuck (i.e., you cannot try the same subtask over
again within the same round). You cannot move any other parts of the town (i.e., apriltags,
peduckstrians or other duckiebots), you are only allowed to touch your own robot.
If you want to skip a task you are allowed to pick your robot up and manually move it forward in the
course. You cannot move it backwards in the course.
You cannot control the robot with manual keyboard control; it must navigate the town autonomously.
As soon as you touch your laptop to send the robot commands the round is over.

Deliverables
There is no report for this lab
Resources
You can use any material on the internet as long as you cite it properly. You are encouraged to
collaborate with your labmates and if you develop a solution together please acknowledge who you
worked with in your written report.

Stage 1: Duckiebot Tailing
In Stage 1 you are being tested on your ability to Tail (follow) another Duckiebot autonomously at a safe
driving distance. You will need to determine what a safe driving distance is. DO NOT run into the
Duckiebot you are following.
Your LEDs should change to indicate you are in following mode, or not.
When the Duckiebot you are following turns at an intersection, your bot should stop at the intersection,
and then turn the same direction to continue following the other Duckiebot. You may lose sight of the
leader at some point, you should lane follow until you find them again.
You must stop at intersections (the red lines) and keep your wheels inside the lines (like exercise 3).
You will have the opportunity to collect a maximum of 25 points during Stage 1 (outlined in the table at
the end of this document).

<see image 1>

Stage 2: Apriltag Detection and Lane Following
In Stage 2 you are being tested on your ability to accurately detect apriltags and reliably drive within the
proper lane.
At the first intersection you encounter you will find an apriltag that Indicates the direction which you
should turn.
You must completely stop at every red line that you encounter (there will also be an apriltag at each red
line telling you which direction to turn).
You must keep your wheels inside the lines (like exercise 3).
You will have the opportunity to collect a maximum of 30 points during Stage 2 (outlined in the table at
the end of this document).

<see image 2>

Stage 3: Obstacle Avoidance
Why did the duck cross the road?
In Stage 3 you are being tested on your ability to safely navigate the road.
You will be required to detect and wait for peduckstrians to cross at the crosswalk as well as detect and
maneuver around a duckiebot broken down on the side of the road.
The two duck crosswalks will be marked with an apriltag. You must always stop at the crosswalk and
check if there are any ducks crossing the road. If there is a duck, you must wait for them to finish
crossing the road before continuing to drive. If there is not a duck crossing, then you may continue
driving right away. Only one of the crosswalks will have a duck crossing the road; the duck will be
clearly visible in the middle of the lane that you are driving in. You must stay in your own lane when
driving through the crosswalk.
When you detect the broken down duckiebot on the side of the road you must stop to inquire if they
would like assistance (don’t worry - they won’t). After you have stopped you will need to safely drive
around the duckiebot and continue along the road in the proper lane.
You will have the opportunity to collect a maximum of 30 points during Stage 3.
To prove he wasn’t a chicken!

<see image 3>

Stage 4: The Parking Lot
For Stage 4 you are being tested on your ability to find and park in the correct stall.
At the beginning of each round you will be told by the TA which stall you must park at in the parking lot
(stall 1, stall 2, stall 3, or stall 4). You should pass this as a command line argument to your program at
launch time.
Each stall will be marked with a unique, static apriltag.
At the end of the round your duckiebot must drive to the correct stall, park, and turn itself off (i.e.,
properly shut down the robot and the launched program).
You will have the opportunity to collect a maximum of 40 points during Stage 4

<see image 4>

Stage One
LEDs indicate follow mode +5 points
Stops at the line and turns correctly after the Duckiebot +5 points
Re-aquires Duckiebot when it catches up +5 points
Stays in the correct lane +5 points
Complete phase two with autonomous navigation without running into an apriltag or the Duckiebot +5 points
Stage Two
Detect left turn apriltag at intersection, stop, then turn left +5 points
Detect right turn apriltag at intersection, stop, then turn right +5 points
Stay within the correct lane while turning left through the intersection +5 points
Stay within the correct lane while turning right through the intersection +5 points
Stay within the correct lane while going around the curved part of the road +5 points
Complete stage one with autonomous navigation without running into an apriltag +5 points
Stage Three
Stop at the first duck crosswalk apriltag +5 points
Stop at the second duck crosswalk apriltag +5 points
Drive through the first duck crosswalk if/when there are no ducks on the road +5 points
Drive through the second duck crosswalk if/when there are no ducks on the road +5 points
Stop at the broken duckiebot to see if they require assistance +5 points
Safely drive around the broken duckiebot without hitting it +5 points
Stage Four
Stop before entering the parking lot +5 points
Drive to the correct side of the parking lot +5 points
Park in the correct parking spot (most of robot in stall) +5 points
Back into the correct parking spot +5 points
Park properly within the stall (not touching the lines denoting the stall) +5 points
Turn off Duckiebot and program after parked +5 points
Complete stage three with autonomous navigation without running into an apriltag +5 points
Made it through entire course without touching your duckiebot +5 points

Team:
Stage One Round 1 Round 2 Round 3
LEDs indicate follow mode
Stops at the line and turns correctly after the Duckiebot
Re-aquires Duckiebot when it catches up
Stays in the correct lane
Complete stage two with autonomous navigation without running into an apriltag or the Duckiebot
Stage Two
Detect left turn apriltag at intersection and turn left
Detect right turn apriltag at intersection and turn right
Stay within the correct lane while turning left through the intersection
Stay within the correct lane while turning right through the intersection
Stay within the correct lane while going around the curved part of the road
Complete stage one with autonomous navigation without running into an apriltag
Stage Three
Stop at the first duck crosswalk apriltag
Stop at the second duck crosswalk apriltag
Drive through the first duck crosswalk if there are no ducks on the road
Drive through the second duck crosswalk if there are no ducks on the road
Stop at the broken duckiebot to see if they require assistance
Safely drive around the broken duckiebot without hitting it
Stage Four
Stop before entering the parking lot
Drive to the correct side of the parking lot
Park in the correct parking spot (most of robot in stall)
Back into the correct parking spot
Park properly within the stall (not touching the lines denoting the stall)
Turn off Duckiebot and program after parked
Complete stage three with autonomous navigation without running into an apriltag
Made it through entire course without touching your duckiebot
TOTAL POINTS COLLECTED